content/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "Home"
description = "Researcher at the Université de Rennes, I am a geomorphologist and numerical modeller investigating the links between climate, tectonics and surface processes. I develop and apply topographic analysis and landscape evolution modelling methods that incorporate shallow water flow to large-scale, long-term landscape evolution, aiming to quantitatively unravel the climatic and tectonic conditions that shaped their genesis and to predict how these landscapes will respond to changes in climatic and tectonic forcing."

[[news]]
date = "2025-11-25"
title = "Hydrodynamics demo now live!"
summary = "Check the difference between transient and stationary flow with different SWE solvers."
link = "/research-softwares/live-web-demo/hydrodynamics"
cta = "Run the demo"
note = "Try both solver modes and pulse the inflow curtain to see how the basin responds. If it blows up, drop dt or toggle the shock smoother."
variant = "glass"

[[news]]
date = "2025-11-24"
title = "New website design"
summary = "Reworked everything—welcome!"
note = "New nav, refreshed hero, tighter typography, and a consolidated Live Web Demo hub."
variant = "glow"

[[sections]]
label = "Projects"
title = "My Research"
summary = "My past and ongoing research projects and directions."
url = "/my-research"
tone = "Narrative"

[[sections]]
label = "Open-Source"
title = "Research Softwares"
summary = "Research softwares, libraries and consortium I lead or contribute to."
url = "/research-softwares"
tone = "Docs"

[[sections]]
label = "CV"
title = "CV"
summary = "Well, my CV. In French and English."
url = "/cv"
tone = "Resume"

[[sections]]
label = "list"
title = "Publications"
summary = "Selected peer-reviewed works."
url = "/publications"
tone = "Bibliography"

[[sections]]
label = "Signals"
title = "Blog"
summary = "Random posts, tuto or show-off."
url = "/blog"
tone = "Posts"

[[sections]]
label = "Flux Lab"
title = "Live Web Demo"
summary = "Launch the hydrodynamics browser demo (and future sandboxes) from a single hub."
url = "/research-softwares/live-web-demo"
tone = "Simulation"
+++

Welcome to the lab notebook on the web. Every section is intentionally scoped: research pages read like concise briefs, software entries behave like living documentation, and the blog doubles as a wiki when ideas are still messy. Replace any placeholder text as soon as you have real updates—most blocks are ready for copy/paste from your working documents.

To add more news items, duplicate a `[[news]]` block above and set `date`, `title`, `summary`, plus optional `link`, `cta`, and `variant` (`glow`, `glass`, or `wire` for contrasting treatments).

Commit message:

Add the hillslope diffusion and improve the layout/default for the landscape evolution demo

content/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "Home"
description = "Researcher at the Université de Rennes, I am a geomorphologist and numerical modeller investigating the links between climate, tectonics and surface processes. I develop and apply topographic analysis and landscape evolution modelling methods that incorporate shallow water flow to large-scale, long-term landscape evolution, aiming to quantitatively unravel the climatic and tectonic conditions that shaped their genesis and to predict how these landscapes will respond to changes in climatic and tectonic forcing."


[[news]]
date = "2026-01-16"
title = "Landscape Evolution Model demo now live!"
summary = "Simulate millions of year of landscape evolution in your browser."
link = "/research-softwares/live-web-demo/lem"
cta = "Run the demo"
note = "Fluvial incision, hillslope linear diffusion and basic tectonics/climate forcings. Note that the landscape is filled to avoid local minima and mass balance issues - that's why the first step can show massive plateaus appearing."
variant = "glass"


[[news]]
date = "2025-11-25"
title = "Hydrodynamics demo now live!"
summary = "Check the difference between transient and stationary flow with different SWE solvers."
link = "/research-softwares/live-web-demo/hydrodynamics"
cta = "Run the demo"
note = "Try both solver modes and pulse the inflow curtain to see how the basin responds. If it blows up, drop dt or toggle the shock smoother."
variant = "glass"

[[news]]
date = "2025-11-24"
title = "New website design"
summary = "Reworked everything—welcome!"
note = "New nav, refreshed hero, tighter typography, and a consolidated Live Web Demo hub."
variant = "glow"

[[sections]]
label = "Projects"
title = "My Research"
summary = "My past and ongoing research projects and directions."
url = "/my-research"
tone = "Narrative"

[[sections]]
label = "Open-Source"
title = "Research Softwares"
summary = "Research softwares, libraries and consortium I lead or contribute to."
url = "/research-softwares"
tone = "Docs"

[[sections]]
label = "CV"
title = "CV"
summary = "Well, my CV. In French and English."
url = "/cv"
tone = "Resume"

[[sections]]
label = "list"
title = "Publications"
summary = "Selected peer-reviewed works."
url = "/publications"
tone = "Bibliography"

[[sections]]
label = "Signals"
title = "Blog"
summary = "Random posts, tuto or show-off."
url = "/blog"
tone = "Posts"

[[sections]]
label = "Flux Lab"
title = "Live Web Demo"
summary = "Launch the hydrodynamics browser demo (and future sandboxes) from a single hub."
url = "/research-softwares/live-web-demo"
tone = "Simulation"
+++

Welcome to the lab notebook on the web. Every section is intentionally scoped: research pages read like concise briefs, software entries behave like living documentation, and the blog doubles as a wiki when ideas are still messy. Replace any placeholder text as soon as you have real updates—most blocks are ready for copy/paste from your working documents.

To add more news items, duplicate a `[[news]]` block above and set `date`, `title`, `summary`, plus optional `link`, `cta`, and `variant` (`glow`, `glass`, or `wire` for contrasting treatments).
